---
layout: post
title: "Seven ways Field Service Lightning helps field and service workers"
date: 2019-11-21
comments: true
author: Kortney Cervantes
published: true
authorIsRacker: true
categories:
    - Salesforce
metaTitle: "Seven ways Field Service Lightning helps field and service workers"
metaDescription: "Salesforce Field Service Lightning helps make work easier for people in the field. It provides incredible transparency into the schedules and status of field workers’ tasks"
ogTitle: "Seven ways Field Service Lightning helps field and service workers"
ogDescription: "Salesforce Field Service Lightning helps make work easier for people in the field. It provides incredible transparency into the schedules and status of field workers’ tasks"
canonical: https://blog.rackspace.com/7-ways-field-service-lighting-fsl-helps-field-and-service-workers/
---

The risk of your customers falling through the cracks is much higher if you do
not have a centralized workforce. A dispatcher might be unable to reach a
technician on the road, or a service van might lack the proper parts to complete
a task. A technician might even get lost searching for the wrong address. All of
these situations can leave your customers unhappy and your workers
frustrated&mdash;nobody wins.

<!--more-->

![](Picture1.png)

If these scenarios sound familiar, it is time to increase your company’s
efficiency. This is where Salesforce&reg; Field Service Lightning (FSL) comes
in. This revolutionary service management software helps make work easier for
people in the field. FSL provides incredible transparency into the schedules and
status of field workers’ tasks. The mobile nature of the platform also makes it
a perfect fit for employees who spend their days in the field. FSL features work
both online and offline. Your workers in the field can still take advantage of
their visual itinerary even if they’re in a remote area or lose cellular service.

Here are seven ways that FSL can help your service team.

### 1. Map view makes time management easier

Having a single view of their workday helps your field workers plan their tasks
more efficiently. Within FSL, your field technicians can access a simplified
map view of all their appointments for the day. This map makes it easier to
calculate the distance between each job and estimate traffic when necessary.
Workers can also use the mobile app to access directions to their next
appointment quickly.

### 2. Mobile updates offer immediate transparency

Sometimes things change in the field. A simple job can suddenly become
complicated. A customer might report something different on arrival than what
they discussed over the phone. A first-time evaluation might require additional
time to diagnose. How prepared is your field worker to report these changes to
the office?

FSL lets field workers give real-time job status updates or change job descriptions.
Your office staff is aware of what is happening because the updates occur
immediately. If the technician is at their current job longer than expected, the
manager or dispatcher can make scheduling adjustments as necessary.

For instance, imagine a field representative gets delayed during an appointment
with a customer and realizes that they are unable to make their next appointment
on time. The field representative can communicate this to dispatch, and dispatch
can identify and send out a different, available technician.

### 3. Einstein Vision erases confusion

Imagine a plumber in the field evaluating the needs for a dishwasher repair.
With so many similar-looking small parts (and hard-to-read serial numbers), it
is easy for a well-meaning technician to make a mistake. With Einstein Vision
for FSL, your field workers can say goodbye to uncertainty.

This incredible technology lets your workers identify a part by scanning a
photo of it into the app. It then provides all relevant information to the
field representative. Using Einstein Vision helps ensure that the correct part
is used for the job, and also helps eliminate delays caused by common ordering
mistakes.

### 4. Knowledge articles reduce delays

Experienced field and service workers still need help from time to time. Imagine
being in the field, faced with a complicated repair, and not having anyone
nearby to ask for help. Delays resulting from complicated or unexpected issues
can cost the company money and leave customers unsatisfied.

Salesforce FSL has an extensive library of articles in the Knowledge section
that are accessible both online and offline. Your workers can make smarter and
faster decisions when they have access to your entire organization’s knowledge
base in their pockets.

### 5. Chatter makes communication simpler

When a knowledge base is not enough, the chatter feature in FSL provides a quick
and easy way to get in touch with company experts and co-workers. Perhaps your
field worker is on a job site that a previous technician has visited. Instead of
trying to track down old paperwork for a work order history, they might be able
to contact the previous technician directly by using the mobile app’s chatter
feature.

_@suzy “Did you also hear a weird sound when disconnecting the unit from the water?”_

_@mike “Yes, that’s likely because the ice maker is turned on. The sound should go away if you turn off the ice maker before disconnecting from the water.”_

_@suzy “Okay, that worked. Thanks”_

Some questions require collaboration between two field workers, or between a
field worker and an in-house resource. By making it easier to stay in touch,
your field technician’s job becomes less isolated and stressful and gives them
the support they need to serve your customers best.

#### 6. Interactive maps cover your bases

Dispatchers responsible for sending sales personnel or other agents into the
field have a lot of power. But great power can come with great confusion unless
you have access to a modern map.

FSL has a feature called polygon mapping. This feature lets the dispatcher draw
shapes on a map and assign each portion to a representative or technician.
Color-coded assignments tell field representatives where to focus their efforts.
Doing this can eliminate the chance of two field representatives overlapping in
the same neighborhood and help prevent a potentially lucrative area from being
neglected. Polygon mapping gives your field representatives clear parameters for
where they should operate.

#### 7. Modern scheduling helps everyone

Assigning a field agent to the wrong job is annoying and can lead to lost
productivity and business. If a field worker shows up to a job for which they
are not qualified, their day just got harder.

With smart scheduling, you can assign jobs based on time, skills, location, and
other business rules that have been designed to increase employee productivity.
This type of scheduling makes life easier for managers and dispatchers, and it
makes field workers more confident when they show up to a job. You can also use
FSL to schedule crews together. Jobs run smoother when the right technicians and
resources are properly scheduled.

### Ready to take your field service to the next level?

The right optimization scheduling software can change the way you do business.
If you are struggling to find ways to keep customers happy without overwhelming
your field technicians and representatives, FSL might be just the solution you
need.

Investing in FSL can streamline your scheduling, inventory, communication, and
more. To learn more about FSL, reach out to our expert implementation and
consulting team at Rackspace. We are certified FSL specialists who have been
involved with FSL since the product first launched and continue to serve on the
FSL Advisory Board. Contact us today to learn more about how we can help you use
FSL to streamline your service business.

<a class="cta red" id="cta" href="https://www.rackspace.com/salesforce">Learn more about Salesforce Customer Relationship Management (CRM)</a>

Visit [www.rackspace.com](https://www.rackspace.com) and click **Sales Chat**
to get started.

Use the Feedback tab to make any comments or ask questions.
